The software runs molecular dynamics simulations of a simple two-dimensional water model named the Mercedes-Benz (MB) water model in NPT ensemble. MB water model is a simple water model which uses Lennard-Jones disks to model water molecules, each disk also has three added arms that enable hydrogen bond formation between the molecules. The program calculates several thermodynamic properties as well as structural properties of the system.
The inclusion of MB model or similar two-dimensional models into standard commercial molecular dynamics program packages is not straightforward, therefore our software can be useful when one needs to calculate different properties of the MB water model. Moreover, the program can be easily adapted if simulation of similar two-dimensional water models is needed. The results that are generated by the software can be presented as standalone results or they can serve as a reference to which results from theories are compared. Simple models such as MB model are often used in statistical mechanic theories due to the simplicity of the models. In such cases, theories need a reference to which their results can be compared. The simulations provide almost exact values of calculated properties to which theories with more approximate results can be compared.
The basic usage of the program is simple. The user writes the conditions at which he wants simulations to run into the input file, in the input file there are also some parameters that can be changed. The executable is generated by compiling source code with Fortran compiler (for example gfortran) and then the user runs the executable. The program will generate different output files with results.
Example of movies generated on https://www.youtube.com/@TomazUrbicFKKT
